Artificial Life, 25.7.2023
100 minutes, 100 points
The first 3 exercises gave 10 points, we had 2 pages to answer them.
The other 14 exercises each gave 5 points and we had 1/2 pages to answer them.
1. Explain the Game of Life, every detail of it.
t=0
Draw the next 2 steps of this pattern and explain the rules of the GoL.
2. Explain the Didabot experiment.
What was the purpose of the Didabots? What were the results? What happens when you use
more than one Didabot?
(here, the questions might have been a bit diﬀerent, but we were supposed to write down
everything we know about the experiment)
3. Explain EAs, the idea behind them, the pros and cons.
Develop steps for an Evolutionary algorithm for the following problem:
You want to mix the perfect soda, there are 7 fixed ingredients and 70 possible additives. You
can always use 15 additives at a time, the additives cannot be more than 3% of the total mix
and each additive cannot be more than 1% of the total mixture.
To evaluate the quality you have a pool of students who are willing to test the sodas, the best
result is achieved if the students always compare 2 drinks to each other.
4. Within an Evolutionary Algorithm a parent individual X(i) with a genome of L bit has created N
oﬀspring X(i) = Y (i)n identical to the parent X(i).
To yield the new generation Y (i + 1)n the mutation operator is modifying each of these N
oﬀspring Y (i)n by flipping each of the N ∗ L bits with a probability of p.
Derive a formula that calculates the propability Q for the case that at least one of the N new
individuals Y (i + 1)n is diﬀerent to the parent X(i).
5. Draw a Game of Life pattern (Glider) that moves to the lower left corner. Draw 4 steps of this
6. 7. 8. 9. pattern.
Give a rule table for the Wolfram number 42D with d=1, r=1, k=2.
What is the probabilistic component of type 1 Braitenberg vehicles?
What would happen if you change proximity to distance sensors in Braitenberg 3b?
What is the purpose of Wheel of Fortune in EAs?
10. Explain the 4 steps of microbehaviour of langton’s ant, support your explanation by a drawing
of each step.
11. Name and explain two aspects of Artificial Life that are connected with John von Neumann.
12. Explain the diﬀerence and similarities between Type 3 and 4 classes of CA.
13. Draw the distribution of fitness before and after external selection with (µ+ λ) and elitism.
14. Name 5. common criteria for life mentioned at the beginning of the lecture.
15. Proof that golden ratio is the limit of Fibonacci (bzw calculate)
16. Develop a Lindenmayer with max. 4 rules that produces OAOAOAOAOAOAOAO at t=3
starting with t=0 and the axiom O
17. Is a totalistic rule with a silent state always legal? (Proof)